How to refactor a Worker to Pages Function (#3744)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/how-to/refactor-a-worker-to-pages-functions.md

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function.
---

> # Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function
```

> 

Reviewer: @Ekwuno There needs to be a sentence here that tells the user what this how to is for. "In this guide, you will..." Because this is missing right now, the point of the this guide is missing.

> When building with Workers there is the option of running your worker separately from your application. A good usecase for this is if the logic in your worker is used by more than one application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building with Workers, you may want to run your Worker separately from your application if the logic in your Worker is used by more than one application. 
```

> However, when you handle things like forms submissions or want to ship a small piece of logic that is unique to your project. The logic can live in the same file system as your project while running on Cloudflare's edge network. You can now use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/).

Reviewer: @Ekwuno I don't think the first sentence isn't a full sentence, can you please review this paragraph again?

> However, when you handle things like forms submissions or want to ship a small piece of logic that is unique to your project. The logic can live in the same file system as your project while running on Cloudflare's edge network. You can now use [Pages Functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/).

Reviewer 2: These should be absolute paths, not fully qualified URLs.

```suggestion
However, when you handle things like forms submissions or want to ship a small piece of logic that is unique to your project. The logic can live in the same file system as your project while running on Cloudflare's edge network. You can now use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/).
```

Reviewer 2: Here are all the instances in this document: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/runs/5457778345?check_suite_focus=true#step:8:14

# Handling form entries with Airtable

> [Airtable](https://airtable.com/) can be used to store entires of information in different tables for the same account, which makes it a good usecase for handling specific forms for differnt projects with Pages Functions.

Reviewer: @Ekwuno this needs more context.

This paragraph should:
1) Define Airtable.
2) Define Pages Functions.
3) Define how they work together.

Previously, you would have created a worker in a folder using [wrangler](/workers/cli-wrangler/install-update/) and manage this worker from within your project or on another server.

> For example, an airtable function that handles a form submission will have the default worker response to a `fetch` action that responsed to a `request` with a handler. 

Reviewer: Is an 'airtable function' a Worker that the user made?

> In the Airtable code below, you have a `submitHandler` async function that can be reached if the pathname of the work is `/submit`. This function checks that the request method is a `POST` request and then proceeds to parse and post the form entries to the Airtable using the credentials.  

Reviewer: @Ekwuno there are three different concepts here: Workers, Pages Functions and Airtable - and none of them have been connected so far.

Author: @deadlypants1973 I see. I will rephrase this paragraph to focus more on Airtable and the Worker.

This step creates the boilerplate to write your Airtable submission Worker. After writing your Worker you can deploy it to Cloudflare Edge network with your credentials.

An example of a Worker that handles Airtable form submission can be seen in the code below. Every Worker will have the default response to a `fetch` action with a `request` handler. Here you have a `submitHandler` async function that can be reached if the pathname of the work is `/submit`. This function checks that the request method is a `POST` request and then proceeds to parse and post the form entries to the Airtable using the credentials.  

```js
addEventListener("fetch", (event) => {
  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request));
});

const FORM_URL = "https://egghead-cloudflare-pages-site.pages.dev";

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const url = new URL(request.url);

  if (url.pathname === "/submit") {
    return submitHandler(request);
  }

>   return new Response.redirect(FORM_URL);

Reviewer 2: The Worker would pass through to the origin, which is assumed to be the Pages app. This architecture/layout can be explained before the code, too. Also means the `FORM_URL` variable can be removed from the code & work for all users as presented

```suggestion
  return fetch(request.url);
```

        "Content-type": `application/json`,
      },
    }
  );
};
```

# Using a Pages Functions

[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) are serverless functions that run on Cloudflare Pages togther with your application. They enable you to run server-side code to enable dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server. Which is a good usecase for our Airtable example.

While the above code works perfectly, you can handle the form submission logic for your client in the same app with Pages Functions. First, you will create a `functions` folder in the base of your application and within this folder you can create a `form.js` file to handle form submissions.

## Refactoring the worker 

Every worker has a `addEventListener` to listen for fetch events but you will not be needing this in a Pages Function, You will `export` a single `OnRequest` function and depending on the HTTPS request it handles you will name it accordly. In the case of accepting form submissions and posting to an airtable you will export a single `OnRequestPost` function like so:

```js
export async function onRequestPost({ request, env }) {
	return await submitHandler({ request, env });
}

```

> The above code takes a `request` and `env` as argumnents which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` fucntion. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, becasue Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code takes a `request` and `env` as argumnents which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` function. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, becasue Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 
```

> The above code takes a `request` and `env` as argumnents which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` fucntion. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, becasue Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code takes a `request` and `env` as arguments which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` fucntion. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, becasue Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 
```

> The above code takes a `request` and `env` as argumnents which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` fucntion. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, becasue Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code takes a `request` and `env` as argumnents which passes this props down to the `submitHandler` fucntion. Which stays the same as the original Worker function. However, because Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type you can remove the `request.method` check, as this is handled by naming the request type. 
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to

> title: Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function.

Reviewer 3: No other titles have full stops.

```suggestion
title: Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function
```

```js
addEventListener("fetch", (event) => {
  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request));
});

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const url = new URL(request.url);

  if (url.pathname === "/submit") {
    return submitHandler(request);
  }

  return fetch(request.url);
}

async function submitHandler(request) {
  if (request.method !== "POST") {
    return new Response("Method not allowed", {
      status: 405,
    });
  }
  const body = await request.formData();

  const { first_name, last_name, email, phone, subject, message } =
    Object.fromEntries(body);

  const reqBody = {
    fields: {
      "First Name": first_name,
      "Last Name": last_name,
      Email: email,
      "Phone number": phone,
      Subject: subject,
      Message: message,
    },
  };

  return HandleAirtableData(reqBody);
}

const HandleAirtableData = (body) => {
  return fetch(
    `https://api.airtable.com/v0/${AIRTABLE_BASE_ID}/${encodeURIComponent(
      AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME
    )}`,
    {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${AIRTABLE_API_KEY}`,
        "Content-type": `application/json`,
      },
    }
  );
};
```

> # Using a Pages Functions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Using Pages Functions
```

Assuming you are already using a Worker for this, you would have deployed this Worker and then pointed your form action to the URL of the Worker. When you change how Worker handles your submissions, you do so separately from your client. If the logic in your Worker is used by more than one application, it makes sense to leave it this way.  

However, it can be beneficial to use a [Pages Function](/pages/platform/functions/), which is a serverless function that lives within the same filesystem as your application and is deployed with your frontend on Cloudflare Pages. Building your application this way can help you manage your client and serverless logic from the same place and make it easier to use and debug your code. 

# Handling form entries with Airtable with a Worker

 An [Airtable](https://airtable.com/) is a low-code platform for building collaborative apps. It helps customize your workflow, collaborate, handle form submissions and achieve ambitious outcomes. For this example, we will focus on the form submission feature of Airtable.

> [Airtables](https://airtable.com/) can be used to store entries of information in different tables for the same account. When creating a Worker for handling the submission logic, the first step is to use [wrangler](/workers/cli-wrangler/install-update/) to initialize a new Worker within a specific folder or at the root of your application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Airtables](https://airtable.com/) can be used to store entries of information in different tables for the same account. When creating a Worker for handling the submission logic, the first step is to use [Wrangler](/workers/cli-wrangler/install-update/) to initialize a new Worker within a specific folder or at the root of your application. 
```

Reviewer: Are you asking the user to run a Wrangler command here? If so, the command should be included?

Author: No, I am describing the steps to using Wrangler to set up a Worker.

> This step creates the boilerplate to write your Airtable submission Worker. After writing your Worker, you can deploy it to Cloudflare's Edge network with your credentials. You can check the Workers documentation for a full tutorial on how to [handle form submission with Workers](/workers/tutorials/handle-form-submissions-with-airtable/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step creates the boilerplate to write your Airtable submission Worker. After writing your Worker, you can deploy it to Cloudflare's edge network after you [configure your project for deployment](/workers/get-started/guide/#7-configure-your-project-for-deployment). Review the Workers documentation for a full tutorial on how to [handle form submission with Workers](/workers/tutorials/handle-form-submissions-with-airtable/).
```

Reviewer: Not sure if credentials meant Cloudflare credentials but I added a link to the configuration portion of the Workers guide to make it more clear.

The code block below shows an example of a Worker that handles Airtable form submission.

> Every Worker will have the default response to a `fetch` action with a `request` handler. Here you have a `submitHandler` async function that is called if the pathname of the work is `/submit`. This function checks that the request method is a `POST` request and then proceeds to parse and post the form entries to the Airtable using your credentials, which you can store using [wrangler secret](/workers/cli-wrangler/commands/#secret).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Worker will have the default response to a `fetch` action with a `request` handler. In the example below, you have a `submitHandler` async function that is called if the pathname of the work is `/submit`. This function checks that the request method is a `POST` request and then proceeds to parse and post the form entries to Airtable using your credentials, which you can store using [wrangler secret](/workers/cli-wrangler/commands/#secret).
```

  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request));
});

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const url = new URL(request.url);

  if (url.pathname === "/submit") {
    return submitHandler(request);
  }

  return fetch(request.url);
}

async function submitHandler(request) {
  if (request.method !== "POST") {
    return new Response("Method not allowed", {
      status: 405,
    });
  }
  const body = await request.formData();

  const { first_name, last_name, email, phone, subject, message } =
    Object.fromEntries(body);

  const reqBody = {
    fields: {
      "First Name": first_name,
      "Last Name": last_name,
      Email: email,
      "Phone number": phone,
      Subject: subject,
      Message: message,
    },
  };

  return HandleAirtableData(reqBody);
}

const HandleAirtableData = (body) => {
  return fetch(
    `https://api.airtable.com/v0/${AIRTABLE_BASE_ID}/${encodeURIComponent(
      AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME
    )}`,
    {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${AIRTABLE_API_KEY}`,
        "Content-type": `application/json`,
      },
    }
  );
};
```

# Using Pages Functions

> [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) are serverless functions that run on Cloudflare Pages together with your application. They enable you to run server-side code to enable dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server. While the above code works perfectly, you can handle the form submission logic for your client in the same app with Pages Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) are serverless functions that run on Cloudflare Pages together with your application. They enable you to run server-side code to enable dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server. While the above code works perfectly, you can handle the form submission logic for your client in the same application with Pages Functions.
```

You can refactor your Airtable Worker to Pages Functions by doing the following. First, you will create a `functions` folder at the base of your application, and within this folder, you can create a `form.js` file to handle form submissions. Next, you will refactor the Worker code to fit the Pages Function syntax in this file.

> ## Refactoring the worker 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Refactoring your Worker
```

> Every Worker has an `addEventListener` to listen for fetch events, but you will not need this in a Pages Function. Instead, you will `export` a single `OnRequest` function, and depending on the HTTPS request it handles, you will name it accordingly.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Worker has an `addEventListener` to listen for `fetch` events, but you will not need this in a Pages Function. Instead, you will `export` a single `OnRequest` function, and depending on the HTTPS request it handles, you will name it accordingly.  
```

> In the case of accepting form submissions and posting to an airtable you will export a single `OnRequestPost` function like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of accepting form submissions and posting to an Airtable, you will export a single `OnRequestPost` function like the example below:
```

```js
---
filename: functions/form.js
---
export async function onRequestPost({ request, env }) {
	return await submitHandler({ request, env });
}

```

The above code takes a `request` and `env` as arguments which passes these props down to the `submitHandler` function, which remains unchanged from the original Worker. However, because Functions allow you to specify the HTTPS request type, you can remove the `request.method` check, which is handled by naming the request type. 

```js
---
filename: functions/form.js
---
async function submitHandler({ request, env }) {
  const body = await request.formData();

  const { first_name, last_name, email, phone, subject, message } =
    Object.fromEntries(body);

  const reqBody = {
    fields: {
      "First Name": first_name,
      "Last Name": last_name,
      Email: email,
      "Phone number": phone,
      Subject: subject,
      Message: message,
    },
  };

  return HandleAirtableData({ body: reqBody, env: env });
}
```

> The code block above shows that we pass the `env` parameter as props so we can access it in the `HandleAirtableData` function below. This function does a `POST` request to Airtable using your Airtable credentials.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code block above shows that you pass the `env` parameter as props so we can access it in the `HandleAirtableData` function below. This function does a `POST` request to Airtable using your Airtable credentials.  
```

```js
---
filename: functions/form.js
---
const HandleAirtableData = async function onRequest({ body, env }) {
  return fetch(
    `https://api.airtable.com/v0/${env.AIRTABLE_BASE_ID}/${encodeURIComponent(
      env.AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME
    )}`,
    {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${env.AIRTABLE_API_KEY}`,
        "Content-type": `application/json`,
      },
    }
  );
};
```

> You can test your function [locally using wrangler 2](/pages/platform/functions/#develop-and-preview-locally).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test your function [locally using Wrangler 2](/pages/platform/functions/#develop-and-preview-locally).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# General refactoring steps 

1. Remove the `addEventListener()` method and its event response and replace it with the appropriate `OnRequest` method. 

> 2. Pass the `context` object as an argment to your new `OnRequest` method to access your `request`,`env`,`params` and `next`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Pass the `context` object as an argument to your new `OnRequest` method to access your `request`,`env`,`params` and `next`.
```
Are `request`,`env`,`params` and `next` parameters? or props?

Reviewer 3: Nope, they're properties of the `context` parameter.

Author: Ah thanks!

> 3.Handle logic must be executed before or after route handles with middleware. Learn more about [using Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) in the Functions documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Handle logic must be executed before or after route handles with middleware. Learn more about [using Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) in the Functions documentation.
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function
---

# Refactor a Worker to a Pages Function

> In this guide, you will learn how to refactor a Worker to a Pages Function that can be hosted with your application on Cloudflare Pages. You may want to do this:

Author: ```suggestion
In this guide, you will learn how to refactor a Worker made to intake form submissions to a Pages Function that can be hosted on your Cloudflare Pages application. [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) is a serverless function that lives within the same project directory as your application and is deployed with Cloudflare Pages. It enables you to run server-side code that adds dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server. You may want to refactor a Worker to a Pages Function for one of these reasons: 
```

	return await submitHandler({ request, env });
}

async function submitHandler({ request, env }) {
  const body = await request.formData();

  const { first_name, last_name, email, phone, subject, message } =
    Object.fromEntries(body);

  const reqBody = {
    fields: {
      "First Name": first_name,
      "Last Name": last_name,
      Email: email,
      "Phone number": phone,
      Subject: subject,
      Message: message,
    },
  };

  return HandleAirtableData({ body: reqBody, env: env });
}
```

The code block above shows that you pass the `env` parameter as props so we can access it in the `HandleAirtableData` function below. This function does a `POST` request to Airtable using your Airtable credentials.  

```js
---
filename: functions/form.js
---

// ..
const HandleAirtableData = async function onRequest({ body, env }) {
  return fetch(
    `https://api.airtable.com/v0/${env.AIRTABLE_BASE_ID}/${encodeURIComponent(
      env.AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME
    )}`,
    {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify(body),
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${env.AIRTABLE_API_KEY}`,
        "Content-type": `application/json`,
      },
    }
  );
};
```

> You can test your function [locally using Wrangler](/pages/platform/functions/#develop-and-preview-locally).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test your Function [locally using Wrangler](/pages/platform/functions/#develop-and-preview-locally). By completing this guide, you have successfully refactored your form submission Worker to a form submission Pages Function.
```

## Related resources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Now that you have seen Pages Functions in a production example. You can refer the [documentation](/pages/platform/functions/) to learn more. You can also check out these tutorials and documentaion for more examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
